[MUSIC PLAYING]
The planet's got a lot
of people on it.
It has six billion today, but
in the next 25 years, we'll
add two billion people
to the planet.
So it becomes a extremely
important issue that all of us
should join together to protect
the planet that
we're living on.
The world is growing in terms
of its population, and
people's aspiration to have a
better tomorrow than today is,
I believe, in the minds
of everybody.
Each citizen, each entrepreneur
in miniature, and
each politician is responsible
to keep our planet wealth to
live on for our children for
the next generations.
Every life support system that
together make up the
biosphere--
they're all in decline.
And it is the externalization
of cost that's
allowing that to happen.
The trashing of the biosphere.
We are losing our biodiversity
at a very rapid rate, and this
is as a result of the human
pressures on the environment
in which we're living.
We lose, as an example, timber
holdings the extent of the
size of Switzerland
every year.
The economy is truly the wholly
owned subsidiary of the
environment.
The economy takes in from
the environment air--
fancy getting along
without air--
water, food, energy.
And it gives off in the other
direction waste, pollution,
carbon dioxide, greenhouse
gases, et cetera, et cetera.
And the result of all of that
is the economy grows and the
environment shrinks.
How long can that go on?
There is most certainly a limit,
and it's in businesses
interest to be sure that
that stability is
achieved in those flows.
That equilibrium is achieved--
that is, sustainability.
The key driving force for
unsustainability, in my view,
is a system of economics that
allows the externalization of
cost. A system that attaches
focus only on exchange value
without regard to use value
and puts no value
whatsoever on nature.
You have to act in a
sustainable way.
That means that we should
not use more nature
than it can be recreated.
And therefore, I think,
sustainable practices are very
important--
for companies, but, I think,
for the society at all.
Everyone must recognize that the
world which surrounds them
isn't free.
So we can't actually go and use
the environment as if it's
someone else's problem
to sort out.
It belongs to everybody, and
so we've got to take
proportionate share in making
sure that whatever we do with
the external world, the
externalities of activity are
somehow incorporated in the full
cost of the activity that
takes place.
And something is done to reduce
the impact on things
which belong to everybody.
No normal person, be he rich or
poor, would prefer to live
in an arid desert without access
to forests or without
access to clean water or in a
polluted environment which
affects their health rather than
live in an environment
which can promote not only their
financial wealth but
their personal wealth in
terms of the way in
which they're living.
But poor people are not very
different than rich people.
They, again, know the difference
between a good life
and a bad life.
They know the difference
between clean
air and unclean air.
They know the difference between
putting their health
at risk and being able to drink
the water or to live in
a noxious-free environment.
And so the issue is really
answered by you asking
yourself, why would you want to
live in an environment that
is being ruined?
In terms of the way the
corporations conduct
themselves, they need to
recognize that spewing out
noxious fumes into the
atmosphere or putting acid
into water or putting toxic
materials in the ground may be
a short-term expediency, but in
the long term, will affect
the people around them, who
sometimes get so mad that they
turn the factory into rubble
by tearing it down.
So there is a connection between
what is both ethically
and morally and even
economically indefensible and
the pressure which comes
on companies.
And that is being demonstrated
now in quite a number of
ways-- both by a push on the
companies and by consumers
taking products for companies
which adopt what they call a
triple bottom line of social
responsibility, environmental
responsibility, as
well as profits.
For us, there are two things
that we focus on which make
our business, I think, better
for the future.
And these are the natural
environment and the way in
which we deal with communities
and human rights.
I think it's all
about progress.
Technology, of course, is so
critical in this area.
I mean, the rate of progress
of technology is
not going to stop.
We look over the last
200 years--
there's been continuous
progress.
I can't possibly believe that
it's not going to carry on.
The gasoline that we make today
bears no relationship to
the gasoline made
10 years ago.
It has no benzene, no sulfur,
no lead in most
parts of the world.
And so it's about progress.
And curiously, I believe that
all the problems that people
see with development are best
solved by more development
rather than less.
Every single way you look at
the world, it's clear the
world's going to consume more
hydrocarbons every day as
peoples of the world develop.
One of the fundamentals of
development is its energy.
It gives people the aspiration
to have light and heat or cool
and mobility.
And this is a very, very
important component of the
world's future progress.
However we look at energy, a
large bulk of it will come
from hydrocarbons for the
foreseeable future.
I'm sure there'll be other types
of engines added to the
overall fleet of cars and
trucks, but there's a lot of
room still for huge efficiency
gains and hugely better output
of emissions from the internal
combustion engine.
Now, first question to ask is,
why on earth should we bother?
And indeed, some readings of the
way in which the economics
of business work is to
say, well, we're
in shareholder value.
We're in the business of
increasing shareholder value.
And people look very short-range
and say, and
that's a quarterly thing.
Every 90 days you have to do
something, so let's not bother
with any of this.
We're in the business of being
in business, and if the
world's free, let's
use it that way.
This, I think, is a deep
misconception of
the nature of business.
First of all, the value of
a business is set by its
long-term growth rate.
Long-term.
All the value is
in the future.
Not in the past and not
in the quarter.
And in all my business in
particular, we have to deal
with 50 to 100 year
time scales.
Having a sense of social
responsibility and
environmental responsibility
does not by any means mean
that you make less money than
you do if you are behaving in
an appropriate way.
I believe personally that we
will only realize real value
by doing what we do in an
environmentally responsible way.
In the summer of 1994,
the company was
already 21 years old.
And for the first time, we began
to hear a whisper from
our marketplace--
mainly from interior designers
and architects--
asking, what is your company
doing for the environment?
And we really had no
answers for that.
And while I was sweating, Paul
Hawken's book, The Ecology of
Commerce, landed on my desk.
And I began to read it, and
very quickly it became, as
I've described it many times,
a spear in the chest. A real
emotional, epiphanal
experience.
And it convicted me
on the spot as a
plunderer of the earth.
And I knew immediately what I
had to say to our people, and
that is that we should be the
company that leads the
industrial world toward
sustainability.
Somebody has to lead.
Why not us?
We've eliminated half the waste
in our company over the
last six years, and that's
measuring waste against
perfection.
That says, do it right the
first time, every time.
No scrap, no off-quality.
Perfection.
And against that very harsh
standard, we've
reduced waste by half.
And there's much, much more to
be done there as we move ahead
on closed-loop production
processes, including
retrieving our products at the
end of their useful life and
giving them life after life.
Capturing those precious organic
molecules and giving
them life after life.
We've studied Mount
Sustainability very, very
carefully, and so far,
we've found seven
faces of the mountain.
And we're intent on climbing
all seven and
meeting at the top.
And that defines, for
us, sustainability.
Zero footprint--
picture the point at the
top of that mountain.
The seven faces of the mountain
are: eliminate waste.
Benign emissions--
to be sure whatever we emit is
benign and harmless to the
environment.
Renewable energy--
first efficiency, and
then switching
to renewable sources.
Closing the loop on
material flows.
Carbon-neutral transportation.
When we've sited our factors
near their markets, which we
do in planned logistics for
maximum efficiency, which we
try to do when we
videoconference to save them
this [UNINTELLIGIBLE].
When we've done it all, there
will still be a carbon gap.
And truly, only the automotive
industry can close that gap.
We'll do our best with
carbon offsets.
Today we plant trees--
trees for travel.
I'm told that a tree, in its
lifetime, will sequester the
carbon generated by 4,000
passenger miles in a
commercial jet.
So every time one of our people
flies 4,000 miles, we
plant a tree.
Sensitizing our people and the
whole community of interest--
customers, suppliers,
the communities
from which were come.
Creating, if you will, an
ecosystem around interface
where cooperation is the
prevailing mode, as opposed to
confrontation.
And finally, reinventing
commerce.
When all the rest of this is in
place, it will be possible
for us to sell the service that
our product delivers,
rather than selling the
product itself.
And that is good ecology.
We started, of course, with the
question of sustainability
in the late '70s and
also in the '80s.
There we had mainly single
projects within our company.
But in the second half of the
'80s, we started to act more
systematically.
And there, we started
to analyze all
areas of the company.
And that means, of course, all
processes within company were
analyzed, and we changed
the processes.
Another area had been the
assortment of our catalogs--
that we have 120,000 articles
in a way that's open.
So it's an ongoing process to
analyze all products and to
change them to environmentally
friendly products.
Wood and cotton are very
sensitive areas, so it would
take wooden products like
furniture or paper-- how does
the wood come from?
And how is the whole
production chain?
It is very important that we
use sustainable forestry.
We must also, for the
question, how
can we secure this?
And there we found the label
for Stewardship Council,
that's the national organization
supported by many
NGOs which is giving
certificates to forests which
are having a sustainable
forestry policy.
The same with cotton.
I think there, we know that
cotton is using a lot of
water, and it's spoiling water
by fertilizer, by chemicals.
And therefore, we have also to
start with the cotton plants.
We helped to change cotton
plants into environmentally
friendly production of plants.
As you will see on television,
many, many of the ads that are
now appearing showing little
children running across a
carefree country scene saying,
my dad works for such and such
a company, and they make
this possible.
If you're a hard-headed
businessman and you're looking
about marketing, those ads
would not be going on
television unless it was
having an impact.
So it's very clear in the
behavior of companies that
they are anxious to project not
only a profitable future,
but also a morally and ethically
sound future.
And there's a lot of reason to
think that the two are not
incompatible.
If your company acts
sustainable, then I think it
gets, of course, a positive
reputation which will help
also for the public relation
of the company.
We have many cases where we
can do environmentally
friendly things and
even save costs.
For example, if we save
energy, we save costs.
And on the other hand, also
it's positive for the
environment.
Trade, of course, is
always done frankly
for economical reasons--
that the trading company
wants to make profits.
And therefore, trading companies
are importing from
companies and from countries
where they
get the best prices.
So we have to have define
standards, which frankly can
be reached also by companies
of the third world.
And what is very important--
we have to support our
manufacturers to reach these
social standards.
As we have a certain size and
therefore a certain buying
power, this is going to affect
choice, of course, and trusted
to meet our standards.
These standards, of course,
are required--
no child labor, and minimum
wages, and walking hours, and
the no discrimination and
respect of gender and the
respect of religion
or ethnic groups.
It is very important.
They don't have the feuding that
we are just dictate them
what they have to do, but
that we are cooperative.
That we want to work together
with them to help the
environment, to help the people,
and finally, to make a
good business together.
Well, the role of the private
sector is incredibly
important, because first and
foremost, if you can provide
jobs to people, that's the
first key out of poverty.
You need to have growth.
And people that live in an
atmosphere where they have
opportunity and where they can
improve their life standards
are obviously much better able
to cater to the environment
around in which they live.
I think behind all this is a
growing recognition on the
part of individual human beings
that it is an economic
and social cost not to take
advantage sensible practices
for sustainable development.
And of course the bank plays
a partnership role
with all the players.
For example, after the
discussions on the various
environmental treaties--
Kyoto being a turning point--
we started a carbon fund in
which we could offer companies
the possibility of reducing
their exposure in terms of
carbon emissions by buying
certificates that would in
fact appreciate the environment
rather than
depreciate it.
That was a prototype fund with
about $145 million in it,
bringing governments and private
sector together.
What we're trying to do, and
the real test of our
organization, will be less the
specific initiatives that we
can point to in a box, but much
more importantly, how
they integrated into
every activity in
which you're engaged.
All business, I think, in
some way or another, has
to think about it.
All business, I believe, is
beginning to think about it.
There are degrees and
degrees of thought.
And of course, the
counterbalance to all this is
what governments do.
And governments are there to
express some sort of general
intent of the populations
that they govern.
And they, in turn, have to have
a role in providing a
framework in which business
can operate, such that one
business cannot take advantage
of another business.
What we're finding is that in
the bank we're being asked
more and more to consult with
governments on the framework
in which company
should operate.
And in fact, in our whole
approach to development now,
which we call a comprehensive
approach--
like a comprehensive development
framework--
we try and establish the good
governance and the framework
of laws and protection
of rights.
International standards
are getting
more and more important.
As societies are getting more
and more global, therefore we
have to set rules--
how they live together, how they
work together, how they
play together.
Rules in the financial area,
rules of foreign policy--
how governments are
working together--
but also rules how people can
protect the environment and
how social standards are set.
I think the NGOs are getting
more and more important,
because the public realized that
they are more neutral.
They trust the NGOs, and
therefore the NGOs are, I
think, getting more and more
influence in all societies.
So you really want to have a
development of a process in
countries--
both developed and developing
where the legal and judicial
system is such that you can
set up a framework for
supervision and monitoring.
Not only through the courts, but
also, might I add, through
the regulatory system for the
strengthening of government.
But you need a coherent
system, because just
regulations, unless you have
a legal and enforceable
mechanism, doesn't
mean anything.
I believe the power is
with the people.
I believe people have to lead.
It is the people who are
the marketplace.
It's the people who
are the voters.
Government has its role.
It has taxing power, and it
would be possible for
governments to redress the
externalities and internalize
the externalities through an
enlightened taxation policy.
Taxing good things that you'd
like to encourage, like income
and property, to tax bad
things you'd like to
discourage, like waste and
pollution of carbon dioxide.
So a tax shift in a
revenue-neutral would change
the world as we know it.
But ultimately, the
marketplace will move business.
I think in very poor countries,
the individual
sometimes doesn't have the
possibility to choose between
different offers.
Sometimes they are happy if they
get some product at all.
But in the industrialized
countries--
there we have enough competition
so the consumer
really plays an important
role.
Every day, he can decide where
he wants to buy a product and
what product he wants to buy.
All of us should join together
to protect the planet that
we're living on.
It's really a planetary context,
different from the
way in which we were
used to thinking
when I went to school.
But it's very real, and it
affects the lives and
opportunities of poor people
but also rich people.
Can business provide
the leadership?
One would like to think so, but
for sure it cannot happen
unless business comes
along, whether
business leads or follows.
It must be part of the solution
to the problem.
Otherwise, it can drag the whole
outfit down and destroy
the effort, and in the process,
destroy life on earth
as we know it.
I mean, that's the
alternative.
Wouldn't it be good if all the
experiences that everybody had
within a company, or as between
companies, were
shared, so that the best way
of doing something was
immediately applied to the
next time you did it?
The key is to find out who
they are and to have a
dialogue with them to see
what you can learn.
There are signs--
real signs, tangible signs--
that people are waking up.
And in my mind, that is that
the driving force for this.
It is the hope of the future--
that people will rise up and
demand the products, the
processes, the approaches
by government.
What we're doing at the bank is
trying to bring a number of
these people together and
it is not difficult.
It is not difficult to bring
them together both to meet
with each other, to meet with
civil society, to meet with
environmentalists, to meet with
our own people, to meet
with other institutions and
with government officials,
just to try and kick things
around on the basis that if it
doesn't cost you any more to
do things right, and if it
preserves also the future, and
it contributes to the general
good, then that's a better
decision than one which is to
spoil the general good and make
people's lives terrible.
So this is not rocket science.
This is just good sense.
Good sense for an individual and
good sense for business.